- So what we're gonna talk about today,
and I'm gonna go a
little slow and wait for
some people to tune in.
But we're gonna launch a new series
called the Falsehoods of Fitness.
So this new series is gonna encompass
all the comments that
I see about my research
or just generally in the company with X3,
we get some crazy comments like,
what about, you know, muscle confusion
or something like that?
Or, the workouts are
the same all the time,
don't you want to mix it up?
There's a lot of really, really
unfortunately false things
that are principles of fitness seemingly
that just won't go away.
And so we're gonna go subject by subject
in no particular order and
we're going to determine...
I'm gonna review what's been
seen in the academic research
as far as some of these principles.
And I've touch on some
of them so many times,
it'd be better to just
have a video to refer to
where I'm quoting the
actual clinical data.
You know, like for example
there's 40 years of research
showing that cardio will help
you protect your body fat.
As in keep as much as possible.
So, you know, not really the way to go,
if being lean is what you wanna do.
If you wanna be a great
runner, different story.
So we'll take like two
questions while we let
some people tune in.
Mandy, is there any questions
anybody's asked so far?
Okay.
Just go ahead and type any
question while we're live.
And of course, after we
finish I'd like to talk about
some of the things that we're gonna hit
in the series, leave suggestions
of, you know, what about X?
What about isolating a body part?
Isolating a piece of a muscle,
that's another great one.
So, we can make sure, and
I don't know if this series
is gonna go like 10 different videos.
It might go 20, 30, 50, I don't know.
There's a lot of goofy stuff out there
that just keeps coming back.
So why don't I go ahead--
- [Man] Okay, we got a question.
- Question, yeah.
- [Man] How do you know
when to move up in bands?
Is there a certain number of
reps you should try to hit?
- Okay, question: how do you
know when to move up in bands?
Is there a certain number to hit?
Yes, because we're using
variable resistance
this is an X3 specific question.
I also wanna know that this
series is not just gonna be
about X3, it's gonna be
falsehoods of fitness
as in applied to all types of fitness,
so this will be shareable
to anybody you know
who cares about exercise.
But this question is specifically for X3.
You move up in bands, you
wanna stay in the rep range
of 15 to 40 repetitions.
Now some would say that seems high.
Except remember in the
stronger range of motion,
when you're out here, when
you're going to fatigue out here
and then you diminish your range of motion
then you go to fatigue here,
then you go to fatigue here.
It's a much more intense stimulus
and you're using more weight
than you may have ever used.
With more repetitions than
you'd normally ever use.
Once you get past 40 repetitions,
that's the time to move to the next band.
So, I hear some people go,
well I really need a band
in between the two bands.
(groans) I don't think you do.
Because a lot of people who are following
that particularly direction
are just making huge gains
and then getting all
the way through one band
and then going to a next one.
So, okay, I am going to continue.
- [Woman] We have another question.
- Another question, yes.
- [Woman] For the advanced program,
does it typically take around
20 minutes to do the workout?
- So I'll repeat the question
just so you guys can hear it.
For the advanced programming,
does it take 20 minutes
to do the workout.
- [Woman] Yes.
- Hmm, no, it should still
take around 10 minutes.
Ultimately you're doing
around four sets per workout.
Remember just stick to the one.
Some people really like
doing two sets per workout
for the exercise, I still do one.
I did experiment with two for a little bit
but I went back to one.
You just go to a deeper
level of exhaustion.
Also when you know you've
gotta get the job done
with one set, you're gonna
behave a little differently.
You're going to go to absolute fatigue
in all ranges of motion simultaneously,
something you cannot do with a weight.
Therefore, the depth of exhaustion.
You're trying to show the
central nervous system
a deficit of tissue.
Like, we don't have enough
muscle here, we need more.
So the more intense the stimulus
in the shorter period of time,
not the longer period, the
shorter period of time,
shows the central nervous system
that clearly more power is needed here.
And that is the clearer signal.
So advanced programming
involves some holds
to really make sure
you're going to fatigue
at whatever peak you're at.
So like in a bicep curl here, I'm holding,
and then I can't hold there anymore
and then I have a shorter
rep and I'm holding there,
I do a few of those.
And then, you know, the last rep is a very
very low range repetition
and a weaker range of motion
and then going to fatigue there.
So making sure you're
really just asking yourself,
am I really going to fatigue here?
And those holds will
tell you, yeah you are.
So very, very clear signals.
So, we'll save the rest of the questions
that are piling up to the end.
And I'm just gonna go
on some of the subjects
that we're gonna talk about
for the Falsehoods of Fitness series.
What we've seen, I've just gonna recap
for the people who tuned in later.
We're going over some of
the things that we've seen
in the questions where
someone will look at
variable resistance and
what we're talking about,
the principles that are
applied in X3 and say
well what about progressive resistance?
You know, like for
example that is a result,
that is not a strategy.
So we're gonna look at things
and I just have a brief list here
of some of the questions that we get
which are just, like nobody should be
asking these questions.
If it fits your macros type nutrition.
Portion control or caloric restriction,
depending on if you read women's magazines
or men's magazines.
Women's magazines typically
call it portion control.
Caloric restriction if you read typically
like a more athletic,
bodybuilding style magazine.
Portions of your muscle, can
you train your upper pecks?
Progressive resistance, that's a favorite,
especially with crossfit people.
We have cardio.
Is fasted cardio better
than non-fasted cardio?
What do I wanna do to lose
the most amount of body fat?
Direct work for abdominals.
Dr. Jaquish why don't you do
any direct work for abdominals?
So, muscle confusion
theory, another favorite
that I get from seemingly
some smart people.
Yet they ask that question.
Bands, can bands make you big?
I heard bands can't make you big.
So those are just some of the examples
of what we're gonna go over.
And I want these to be short,
maybe five minute videos
where I'll go over the
best study in the category
'cause you don't wanna hear me rattle on
about 10 different studies.
I'm just gonna go over the best study
in each one of those areas and really nail
what it is that's key,
what's the key takeaway
to all of those things?
And are they true or are they not true?
And I can tell you if they're
on the list of falsehoods,
not true.
And I will give you that research.
So, welcome to the series,
they're all gonna go on YouTube
in order and they're all be
on the x3bar.com website.
And they'll be very
searchable and so everybody
can find those.
Like I said, five, 10 minute
videos all on one subject.
So ease of find, I think
everybody will enjoy.